README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot/tree/V3/develop"><img src="https://imgur.com/pY1WUFX.png" alt="Red - Discord Bot"></a>
  <br>
  Red Discord Bot
  <br>
</h1>

<h4 align="center">Music, Moderation, Trivia, Stream Alerts and Fully Modular.</h4>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://discord.gg/red">
    <img src="https://discordapp.com/api/guilds/133049272517001216/widget.png?style=shield" alt="Discord Server">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.patreon.com/Red_Devs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Support-Red!-yellow.svg" alt="Support Red on Patreon!">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.python.org/downloads/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20With-Python%203-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="Made with Python 3">
  </a>
  <a href="https://crowdin.com/project/red-discordbot">
    <img src="https://d322cqt584bo4o.cloudfront.net/red-discordbot/localized.svg" alt="Localized with Crowdin">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py/tree/rewrite">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-py-blue.svg" alt="discord.py">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot">
    <img src="https://api.travis-ci.org/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot.svg?branch=V3/develop" alt="Travis CI">
  </a>
  <a href="http://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/?badge=v3-develop">
    <img src="https://readthedocs.org/projects/red-discordbot/badge/?version=v3-develop" alt="Red on readthedocs.org">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/ambv/black">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg" alt="Code Style: Black">
  </a>
  <a href="http://makeapullrequest.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#overview">Overview</a>
  •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a>
  •
  <a href="http://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/index.html">Documentation</a>
  •
  <a href="#plugins">Plugins</a>
  •
  <a href="#join-the-community">Community</a>
  •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

# Overview

Red is a fully modular bot – meaning all features and commands can be enabled/disabled to your
liking, making it completely customizable. This is also a *self-hosted bot* – meaning you will need
to host and maintain your own instance. You can turn Red into an admin bot, music bot, trivia bot,
new best friend or all of these together!  

[Installation](#installation) is easy, and you do **NOT** need to know anything about coding! Aside
from installation and updating, every part of the bot can be controlled from within Discord.

**The default set of modules includes and is not limited to:**

- Moderation features (kick/ban/softban/hackban, mod-log, filter, chat cleanup)
- Trivia (lists are included and can be easily added)
- Music features (YouTube, SoundCloud, local files, playlists, queues)
- Stream alerts (Twitch, Youtube, Mixer, Hitbox, Picarto)
- Bank (slot machine, user credits)
- Custom commands
- Imgur/gif search
- Admin automation (self-role assignment, cross-server announcements, mod-mail reports)
- Customisable command permissions

**Additionally, other [plugins](#plugins) (cogs) can be easily found and added from our growing
community of cog repositories.**

# Installation

**The following platforms are officially supported:** 

- [Windows](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_windows.html)
- [MacOS](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Ubuntu](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Debian Stretch](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [CentOS 7](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Arch Linux](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Raspbian Stretch](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)

Already using **Red** V2? Take a look at the [Data Converter](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/cog_dataconverter.html)
to import your data to V3.

If after reading the guide you are still experiencing issues, feel free to join the
[Official Discord Server](https://discord.gg/red) and ask in the **#v3-support** channel for help.

# Plugins

Red is fully modular, allowing you to load and unload plugins of your choice, and install 3rd party
plugins directly from Discord! A few examples are:

- Cleverbot integration (talk to Red and she talks back)
- Ban sync
- Welcome messages
- Casino
- Reaction roles
- Slow Mode
- Anilist
- And much, much more!

Feel free to take a [peek](https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot/issues/1398) at a list of
available 3rd party cogs!

# Join the community!

**Red** is in continuous development, and it’s supported by an active community which produces new
content (cogs/plugins) for everyone to enjoy. New features are constantly added. If you can’t
[find](https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot/issues/1398) the cog you’re looking for,
consult our [guide](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/guide_cog_creation.html) on
building your own cogs!

Join us on our [Official Discord Server](https://discord.gg/red)!

# License

Released under the [GNU GPL v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html) license.

Red is named after the main character of "Transistor", a video game by
[Super Giant Games](https://www.supergiantgames.com/games/transistor/).

Artwork created by [Sinlaire](https://sinlaire.deviantart.com/) on Deviant Art for the Red Discord
Bot Project.

Commit message:

Vendor discord.py (#2387)
Signed-off-by: Toby Harradine <tobyharradine@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot/tree/V3/develop"><img src="https://imgur.com/pY1WUFX.png" alt="Red - Discord Bot"></a>
  <br>
  Red Discord Bot
  <br>
</h1>

<h4 align="center">Music, Moderation, Trivia, Stream Alerts and Fully Modular.</h4>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://discord.gg/red">
    <img src="https://discordapp.com/api/guilds/133049272517001216/widget.png?style=shield" alt="Discord Server">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.patreon.com/Red_Devs">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Support-Red!-yellow.svg" alt="Support Red on Patreon!">
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.python.org/downloads/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20With-Python%203-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge" alt="Made with Python 3">
  </a>
  <a href="https://crowdin.com/project/red-discordbot">
    <img src="https://d322cqt584bo4o.cloudfront.net/red-discordbot/localized.svg" alt="Localized with Crowdin">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py/tree/rewrite">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-py-blue.svg" alt="discord.py">
  </a>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot">
    <img src="https://api.travis-ci.org/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot.svg?branch=V3/develop" alt="Travis CI">
  </a>
  <a href="http://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/?badge=v3-develop">
    <img src="https://readthedocs.org/projects/red-discordbot/badge/?version=v3-develop" alt="Red on readthedocs.org">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/ambv/black">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg" alt="Code Style: Black">
  </a>
  <a href="http://makeapullrequest.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg">
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#overview">Overview</a>
  •
  <a href="#installation">Installation</a>
  •
  <a href="http://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/index.html">Documentation</a>
  •
  <a href="#plugins">Plugins</a>
  •
  <a href="#join-the-community">Community</a>
  •
  <a href="#license">License</a>
</p>

# Overview

Red is a fully modular bot – meaning all features and commands can be enabled/disabled to your
liking, making it completely customizable. This is also a *self-hosted bot* – meaning you will need
to host and maintain your own instance. You can turn Red into an admin bot, music bot, trivia bot,
new best friend or all of these together!  

[Installation](#installation) is easy, and you do **NOT** need to know anything about coding! Aside
from installation and updating, every part of the bot can be controlled from within Discord.

**The default set of modules includes and is not limited to:**

- Moderation features (kick/ban/softban/hackban, mod-log, filter, chat cleanup)
- Trivia (lists are included and can be easily added)
- Music features (YouTube, SoundCloud, local files, playlists, queues)
- Stream alerts (Twitch, Youtube, Mixer, Hitbox, Picarto)
- Bank (slot machine, user credits)
- Custom commands
- Imgur/gif search
- Admin automation (self-role assignment, cross-server announcements, mod-mail reports)
- Customisable command permissions

**Additionally, other [plugins](#plugins) (cogs) can be easily found and added from our growing
community of cog repositories.**

# Installation

**The following platforms are officially supported:** 

- [Windows](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_windows.html)
- [MacOS](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Ubuntu](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Debian Stretch](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [CentOS 7](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Arch Linux](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)
- [Raspbian Stretch](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/install_linux_mac.html)

Already using **Red** V2? Take a look at the [Data Converter](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/cog_dataconverter.html)
to import your data to V3.

If after reading the guide you are still experiencing issues, feel free to join the
[Official Discord Server](https://discord.gg/red) and ask in the **#v3-support** channel for help.

# Plugins

Red is fully modular, allowing you to load and unload plugins of your choice, and install 3rd party
plugins directly from Discord! A few examples are:

- Cleverbot integration (talk to Red and she talks back)
- Ban sync
- Welcome messages
- Casino
- Reaction roles
- Slow Mode
- Anilist
- And much, much more!

Feel free to take a [peek](https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot/issues/1398) at a list of
available 3rd party cogs!

# Join the community!

**Red** is in continuous development, and it’s supported by an active community which produces new
content (cogs/plugins) for everyone to enjoy. New features are constantly added. If you can’t
[find](https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot/issues/1398) the cog you’re looking for,
consult our [guide](https://red-discordbot.readthedocs.io/en/v3-develop/guide_cog_creation.html) on
building your own cogs!

Join us on our [Official Discord Server](https://discord.gg/red)!

# License

Released under the [GNU GPL v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html) license.

This project vendors the
[discord.py library by Rapptz](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py/tree/rewrite), which is
licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). This amounts to everything
within the *discord* folder of this repository.

Red is named after the main character of "Transistor", a video game by
[Super Giant Games](https://www.supergiantgames.com/games/transistor/).

Artwork created by [Sinlaire](https://sinlaire.deviantart.com/) on Deviant Art for the Red Discord
Bot Project.
