docs/autostart_systemd.rst, before:

.. _systemd-service-guide:

==============================================
Setting up auto-restart using systemd on Linux
==============================================

-------------------------
Creating the service file
-------------------------

Create the new service file:

:code:`sudo -e /etc/systemd/system/red@.service`

Paste the following and replace all instances of :code:`username` with the username your bot is running under (hopefully not root):

.. code-block:: none

    [Unit]
    Description=%I redbot
    After=multi-user.target

    [Service]
    ExecStart=/home/username/.local/bin/redbot %I --no-prompt
    User=username
    Group=username
    Type=idle
    Restart=always
    RestartSec=15
    RestartPreventExitStatus=0
    TimeoutStopSec=10

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

Save and exit :code:`ctrl + O; enter; ctrl + x`

---------------------------------
Starting and enabling the service
---------------------------------

.. note:: This same file can be used to start as many instances of the bot as you wish, without creating more service files, just start and enable more services and add any bot instance name after the **@**

To start the bot, run the service and add the instance name after the **@**:

:code:`sudo systemctl start red@instancename`

To set the bot to start on boot, you must enable the service, again adding the instance name after the **@**:

:code:`sudo systemctl enable red@instancename`

If you need to shutdown the bot, you can use the ``[p]shutdown`` command or
type the following command in the terminal, still by adding the instance name after the **@**:

:code:`sudo systemctl stop red@instancename`

.. warning:: If the service doesn't stop in the next 10 seconds, the process is killed.
    Check your logs to know the cause of the error that prevents the shutdown.

To view Red’s log, you can acccess through journalctl:

:code:`sudo journalctl -u red@instancename`

Commit message:

Add autostart documentation for venv users (#3028)
* Add documentation for venv users

Resolves #3005

* Add changes to changelog.d

* Use "redenv" over "path/to/venv"

docs/autostart_systemd.rst, after:

.. _systemd-service-guide:

==============================================
Setting up auto-restart using systemd on Linux
==============================================

-------------------------
Creating the service file
-------------------------

In order to create the service file, you will first need the location of your :code:`redbot` binary.

.. code-block:: bash

    # If redbot is installed in a virtualenv
    source redenv/bin/activate

    # If you are using pyenv
    pyenv shell <name>

    which redbot

Then create the new service file:

:code:`sudo -e /etc/systemd/system/red@.service`

Paste the following and replace all instances of :code:`username` with the username, and :code:`path` with the location you obtained above:

.. code-block:: none

    [Unit]
    Description=%I redbot
    After=multi-user.target

    [Service]
    ExecStart=path %I --no-prompt
    User=username
    Group=username
    Type=idle
    Restart=always
    RestartSec=15
    RestartPreventExitStatus=0
    TimeoutStopSec=10

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

Save and exit :code:`ctrl + O; enter; ctrl + x`

---------------------------------
Starting and enabling the service
---------------------------------

.. note:: This same file can be used to start as many instances of the bot as you wish, without creating more service files, just start and enable more services and add any bot instance name after the **@**

To start the bot, run the service and add the instance name after the **@**:

:code:`sudo systemctl start red@instancename`

To set the bot to start on boot, you must enable the service, again adding the instance name after the **@**:

:code:`sudo systemctl enable red@instancename`

If you need to shutdown the bot, you can use the ``[p]shutdown`` command or
type the following command in the terminal, still by adding the instance name after the **@**:

:code:`sudo systemctl stop red@instancename`

.. warning:: If the service doesn't stop in the next 10 seconds, the process is killed.
    Check your logs to know the cause of the error that prevents the shutdown.

To view Red’s log, you can acccess through journalctl:

:code:`sudo journalctl -u red@instancename`
