docs/index.rst, before:

.. Red - Discord Bot documentation master file, created by
    sphinx-quickstart on Thu Aug 10 23:18:25 2017.
    You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
    contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. _main:

Welcome to Red - Discord Bot's documentation!
=============================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Installation Guides:

    install_windows
    install_mac
    install_ubuntu_xenial
    install_ubuntu_bionic
    install_debian
    install_centos
    install_arch
    install_raspbian
    cog_dataconverter
    autostart_systemd

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: How to use

    getting_started

    admin
    alias
    audio

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Cog Reference:

    cog_downloader
    cog_permissions

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Red Development Framework Reference:

    guide_migration
    guide_cog_creation
    guide_data_conversion
    framework_bank
    framework_bot
    framework_cogmanager
    framework_config
    framework_datamanager
    framework_downloader
    framework_events
    framework_i18n
    framework_modlog
    framework_commands
    framework_rpc
    framework_utils



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Made references appear in the index
The Travis CI build should be successful now, lemme see some green please

docs/index.rst, after:

.. Red - Discord Bot documentation master file, created by
    sphinx-quickstart on Thu Aug 10 23:18:25 2017.
    You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
    contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. _main:

Welcome to Red - Discord Bot's documentation!
=============================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Installation Guides:

    install_windows
    install_mac
    install_ubuntu_xenial
    install_ubuntu_bionic
    install_debian
    install_centos
    install_arch
    install_raspbian
    cog_dataconverter
    autostart_systemd

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: How to use

    getting_started

    admin
    alias
    audio
    downloader
    permissions

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Cog Reference:

    cog_downloader
    cog_permissions

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Red Development Framework Reference:

    guide_migration
    guide_cog_creation
    guide_data_conversion
    framework_bank
    framework_bot
    framework_cogmanager
    framework_config
    framework_datamanager
    framework_downloader
    framework_events
    framework_i18n
    framework_modlog
    framework_commands
    framework_rpc
    framework_utils

.. These files need to be included or Travis will fail 

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Various

    host-list


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
