docs/install_debian.rst, before:

.. debian install guide

================================
Installing Red on Debian Stretch
================================

.. warning:: For safety reasons, DO NOT install Red with a root user. Instead, `make a new one <https://manpages.debian.org/stretch/adduser/adduser.8.en.html>`_.

---------------------------
Installing pre-requirements
---------------------------

.. code-block:: none

    echo "deb http://httpredir.debian.org/debian stretch-backports main contrib non-free" >> /etc/apt/sources.list
    apt-get update
    apt-get install python3.5-dev python3-pip build-essential libssl-dev libffi-dev git unzip default-jre -y

------------------
Installing the bot
------------------

To install without audio:

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links red-discordbot`

To install with audio:

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links red-discordbot[voice]`

To install the development version (without audio):

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links git+https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot@V3/develop#egg=red-discordbot`

To install the development version (with audio):

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links git+https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot@V3/develop#egg=red-discordbot[voice]`

------------------------
Setting up your instance
------------------------

Run :code:`redbot-setup` and follow the prompts. It will ask first for where you want to
store the data (the default is :code:`~/.local/share/Red-DiscordBot`) and will then ask
for confirmation of that selection. Next, it will ask you to choose your storage backend
(the default here is JSON). It will then ask for a name for your instance. This can be
anything as long as it does not contain spaces; however, keep in mind that this is the
name you will use to run your bot, and so it should be something you can remember.

-----------
Running Red
-----------

Run :code:`redbot <your instance name>` and run through the initial setup. This will ask for
your token and a prefix.

Commit message:

[V3 Docs] Move the install docs to install Python 3.6 (#1685)
* [V3 Docs] drop ffmpeg from CentOS install guide

* [V3 Install Docs] move all to Python 3.6

* Update the toctree

* Needed a blank line

* drop a .6 that wasn't needed

docs/install_debian.rst, after:

.. debian install guide

================================
Installing Red on Debian Stretch
================================

.. warning:: For safety reasons, DO NOT install Red with a root user. Instead, `make a new one <https://manpages.debian.org/stretch/adduser/adduser.8.en.html>`_.

---------------------------
Installing pre-requirements
---------------------------

.. code-block:: none

    sudo apt install -y make build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev wget curl llvm libncurses5-dev libncursesw5-dev xz-utils tk-dev libffi-dev git unzip default-jre
    curl -L https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer/raw/master/bin/pyenv-installer | bash

After that last command, you may see a warning about 'pyenv' not being in the load path. Follow the instructions given to fix that, then close and reopen your shell

Then run the following command:

.. code-block:: none

    CONFIGURE_OPTS=--enable-optimizations pyenv install 3.6.5 -v

This may take a long time to complete.

After that is finished, run:

.. code-block:: none

    pyenv global 3.6.5

------------------
Installing the bot
------------------

To install without audio:

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links red-discordbot`

To install with audio:

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links red-discordbot[voice]`

To install the development version (without audio):

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links git+https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot@V3/develop#egg=red-discordbot`

To install the development version (with audio):

:code:`pip3 install -U --process-dependency-links git+https://github.com/Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot@V3/develop#egg=red-discordbot[voice]`

------------------------
Setting up your instance
------------------------

Run :code:`redbot-setup` and follow the prompts. It will ask first for where you want to
store the data (the default is :code:`~/.local/share/Red-DiscordBot`) and will then ask
for confirmation of that selection. Next, it will ask you to choose your storage backend
(the default here is JSON). It will then ask for a name for your instance. This can be
anything as long as it does not contain spaces; however, keep in mind that this is the
name you will use to run your bot, and so it should be something you can remember.

-----------
Running Red
-----------

Run :code:`redbot <your instance name>` and run through the initial setup. This will ask for
your token and a prefix.
